This is the README file for R package 'this.path'. The goal
of 'this.path' is to provide a mechanism for retrieving the
absolute path of an R script from within said script, and
without needing to explicitly write down the path within
said script. As as added benefit, it provides a mechanism
for specifying absolute file paths relative to a script's
directory without changing the working directory.

This is something that Python has natively. When a Python
script is run, it makes a variable '__file__' that is the
absolute path of the script in which it was created. This
package seeks to provide the same idea.

'this.path()' will return the absolute path of the R script
in which it is written. 'this.dir()' will return the
absolute path of the directory of the R script in which it
is written. 'here()' is a method of specifying file paths
in a similar manner to 'file.path()', prepended by the
directory of the executing R script.





# this.path vs here ----

A similar R package to 'this.path' is 'here' by Kirill
Müller. 'this.path' provides a mechanism for specifying a
path relative to the executing R script's directory, while
'here' provides a mechanism for specifying a path relative
to the project's directory.

As a long time 'here' user, I appreciate all the
functionality and convenience this package offered, but it
has some faults that 'this.path' overcomes. I mean no hate
when I say the things I'm about to say, it's not that I
dislike 'here', but that I could no longer use it because
of my specific use-case.

There are two reasons why 'here' was not working for me and
why I had to make this package:

'here' does not work when two projects rely on each other.
In my scenario, I had project A and B, both of which rarely
relied on the other (so I did not want to combine them),
but had once instance in which they ran a script from the
other project. However, the project root was already set to
the root of project A, so when I tried to run the script in
project B from a script in project A, the project root did
not update and the script in project B would fail.

'here' does not work when a project is stored on the
internet. When I say on the internet, I am not referring to
a project stored in a UNC drive, that still works
correctly. I'm talking about projects uploaded to a
website. The work I do requires that all source code and
input be publicly available through our website, and that
the code should run as expected (as slow as it may be).
Since the project root of 'here' cannot be a URL, I cannot
use it.
